docs: Key-value store schema page (#1645)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/development/actor_definition/key_value_store_schema/index.md

---
title: Key-value store schema
sidebar_position: 3
description: Learn how to define and present your key-value store schema to organize records into collections.
slug: /actors/development/actor-definition/key-value-store-schema
---

# Key-value Store Schema Specification

**Learn how to define and present your key-value store schema to organize records into collections.**

---

The key‑value store schema organizes keys into logical groups called collections, which can be used to filter and categorize data both in the API and the visual user interface. This organization helps users navigate and find specific data more efficiently, while schema‑defined rules (such as content types and JSON schema) ensure that stored values remain consistent and valid.

## Example

> Let's consider an example Actor that calls `Actor.setValue()` to save a record into the key-value store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider an example Actor that calls `Actor.setValue()` to save a record into the key-value store:
```

```javascript title="main.js"
import { Actor } from 'apify';
// Initialize the JavaScript SDK
await Actor.init();

/**
 * Actor code
 */
await Actor.setValue('document-1', 'my text data', { contentType: 'text/plain' });

// ...

await Actor.setValue(`image-${imageID}`, imageBuffer, { contentType: 'image/jpeg' });

// Exit successfully
await Actor.exit();
```

> To set up the key-value store schema using a single configuration file, use the following template for the `.actor/actor.json` configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the key-value store schema, use the following template for the `.actor/actor.json` configuration:
```

```json title=".actor/actor.json"
{
    "actorSpecification": 1,
    "name": "Actor Name",
    "title": "Actor Title",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "storages": {
        "keyValueStore": {
            "actorKeyValueStoreSchemaVersion": 1,
            "title": "Key-Value Store Schema",
            "collections": {
                "documents": {
                    "title": "Documents",
                    "description": "Text documents stored by the Actor.",
                    "keyPrefix": "document-"
                },
                "images": {
                    "title": "Images",
                    "description": "Images stored by the Actor.",
                    "keyPrefix": "image-",
                    "contentTypes": ["image/jpeg"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

The template above defines the configuration for the default key-value store.
Each collection can define its member keys using one of the following properties:

- `keyPrefix` - All keys starting with the specified prefix will be included in the collection (e.g., all keys starting with "document-").
- `key` - A specific individual key that will be included in the collection.

> Note that you must use either `key` or `keyPrefix` for each collection, but not both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must use either `key` or `keyPrefix` for each collection, but not both.
```

> Once the key-value store schema is defined, the tabs for each collection will appear in the `Storage` tab of the Actor's run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the schema is defined, tabs for each collection will appear in the **Storage** tab of the Actor's run:
```

![Storages tab in Run](images/kv-store-schema-example-run.png)

> And in the storage detail view too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tabs also appear in the storage detail view:
```

## Structure

Output configuration files need to be located in the `.actor` folder within the Actor's root directory.

You have two choices of how to organize files within the `.actor` folder.

### Single configuration file

```json title=".actor/actor.json"
{
    "actorSpecification": 1,
    "name": "this-is-book-library-scraper",
    "title": "Book Library scraper",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "storages": {
        "keyValueStore": {
            "actorKeyValueStoreSchemaVersion": 1,
            "title": "Key-Value Store Schema",
            "collections": { /* Define your collections here */ }
        }
    }
}
```

### Separate configuration files

```json title=".actor/actor.json"
{
    "actorSpecification": 1,
    "name": "this-is-book-library-scraper",
    "title": "Book Library scraper",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "storages": {
        "keyValueStore": "./key_value_store_schema.json"
    }
}
```

```json title=".actor/key_value_store_schema.json"
{
    "actorKeyValueStoreSchemaVersion": 1,
    "title": "Key-Value Store Schema",
    "collections": { /* Define your collections here */ }
}
```

> Both of these methods are valid so choose one that suits your needs best.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the method that best suits your configuration.
```

## Key-value store schema structure definitions

> The key-value store schema defines the collections of keys (and their properties) in the key-value store.
> It allows you to organize and validate data stored by the Actor, making it easier to manage and retrieve specific records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key-value store schema defines the collections of keys and their properties. It allows you to organize and validate data stored by the Actor, making it easier to manage and retrieve specific records.
```

### Key-value store schema object definition

| Property                          | Type                          | Required | Description                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `actorKeyValueStoreSchemaVersion` | integer                       | true     | Specifies the version of key-value store schema structure document. <br/>Currently only version 1 is available. |

> | `title`                           | string                        | true     | Title of the schema. Currently not used anywhere.                                                               |
> | `description`                     | string                        | false    | Description of the schema. Currently not used anywhere.                                                         |

Reviewer: We try not to anchor documentation in time since the reader has no point of reference. IMO it makes sense to just name the properties even if they are not used anywhere.

```suggestion
| `title`                           | string                        | true     | Title of the schema                                                               |
| `description`                     | string                        | false    | Description of the schema                                                         |
```

| `collections`                     | Object                        | true     | An object where each key is a collection ID and its value is a collection definition object (see below).        |

### Collection object definition

| Property       | Type         | Required     | Description                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------|--------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `title`        | string       | true         | The collection’s title is shown in the storage tab of a run and in the storage detail view, where it appears as a tab for filtering records.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `title`        | string       | true         | The collection’s title, shown in the run's storage tab and in the storage detail view, where it appears as a tab for filtering records.    |
```

> | `description`  | string       | false        | A description of the collection that appears in tooltips in the UI.                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `description`  | string       | false        | A description of the collection that appears in UI tooltips.  |
```

| `key`          | string       | conditional* | Defines a single specific key that will be part of this collection.                                                                             |
| `keyPrefix`    | string       | conditional* | Defines a prefix for keys that should be included in this collection.                                                                           |
| `contentTypes` | string array | false        | Allowed content types for records in this collection. Used for validation when storing data.                                                    |

> | `jsonSchema`   | object       | false        | For collections with content type `application/json`, you can define a JSON schema to validate structure. <br/>Uses JsonSchema Draft 07 format. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `jsonSchema`   | object       | false        | For collections with content type `application/json`, you can define a JSON schema to validate structure. <br/>Uses JSON Schema Draft 07 format. |
```
